# Fire_Drill_Simulation_VR
 This project is a fire drill simulation with the purpose of informing the users how to act in the scenario of a fire drill.  Hence, the need for fire drills in large or medium corporations became necessary in order to save lives in case of an emergency, but there still are some inefficiencies in the traditional fire drills. Therefore, the use of a fire drill simulator can reduce these inefficiencies to some extent.  Project Objectives To teach the user how to react and respond in the case of a fire extinguisher To teach the user how to put out fires. To teach the user how to calmly exit the scene of the accident To instill a sense of urgency in a fire emergency through Virtual Reality To create a more engaging way to learn how to act in case of fire Learning how to use Unity Software, the Oculus Rift, C# language and generally Virtual Reality in Specific Situations in Life   Project Development The equipment used for this project include the Oculus Rift headset, the Oculus touch left and right-hand controller, two Oculus sensors and an Alienware laptop.    Use of Each Device 1. Left and Right Hand Touch Controllers: This device enabled user interaction with game objects. 2. Oculus Sensors: These enabled the Unity Software to track user movements. 3. Oculus Rift Headset: This device enabled visualization of game environment. 4. Alienware laptop: This device’s QUAD HD 17-inch display, 4GB GDDR5 standard memory, 8th Gen Intel Core processor and optimum gaming graphics made this the ideal laptop.   Oculus Rift Setup 1.      Download and install Unity Software 2.      Plug-in and configure headset 3.      Set-up sensor -          Create play area -          Configure standing height -          Placing sensors: Make sure play area is at least 3 by 3 feet. Make sure nothing is blocking line of sight between headset and sensors. Sensors are about 6 feet apart from each other. 4.      Set up touch controllers To achieve optimum PC-gaming graphics, the left and right hand controllers had to be calibrated with the sensors to obtain a workable range or the user and the oculus signal to operate. 5.      Set up guardian system The Guardian system maps out where you will be using the Rift and warns the user when user is near boundaries of that area.       Assets Used 1.  	3D Models 2.  	Environment 3.  	Fire Extinguisher Model 4.  	Start Message 5.  	Second Message 6.  	Fire - Trigger Cubes   	7. Extinguisher Fumes -Projectile   	8. Number Pad   	9.Custom Hands  	10. Images  	11. Congratulatory Message  	12. Images: -The congratulatory message was sampled from Pinterest.   Audio 1.      Fire Extinguisher Spraying Sound 2.      Fire Alarm Sound   	 To produce the fire alarm sound, this fire alarm sound (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QYBVHJm6tS4&t=10s) was juiced from YouTube using mp3juices.cc  3.      Crackling Fire Sound The fire crackling sound was also juiced from YouTube using mp3juices.cc
